# Master-Thesis-Uncertainty-Quantification

Code and report for my master thesis project @ **Imperial College London** for the fulfillment of a Master of Science in Advanced Aeronautical Engineering (obtained with Distinction) on the subject of **Error and Uncertainty Quantification in Statistics Computed from Direct Numerical Simulation**. This master thesis has been conducted under the supervision of Dr. Sylvain Laizet. 


## Abstract 

*Numerical simulation has been established as one of the most useful tool in the field of turbulence research. Notably, Direct Numercial Simulation (DNS) is widely used to understand the physics of flows, test hypothesis in turbulence as well as turbulence closure models. Just as it is the case for experimental data, it is of primary importance to estimate the uncertainty in statistics computed from DNS to understand their range of validity. Unfortunately, the available methods (standard Richardson extrapolation for example) to estimate the discretization error do not take into account sampling uncertainty which undoubtedly affects DNS data. This paper is based on the bayesian probabilistic model developed by Oliver and al. [12] which appears very promising with the provision of a framework to estimate the uncertainty in DNS data from its two main sources of error : discretization and finite sampling. Following the investigation of the mathematical model developed by Oliver, the model was implemented in Python and Matlab and our results were successfully tested against Oliver’s. An estimator for the sampling uncertainty based on the work of Oliver and Trenberth [12][17] was developed and successfully tested as well. In a next step, the model was applied to the DNS of a turbulent channel flow at Reτ ≈ 180 performed by Dr. Sylvain Laizet. In addition to the work of Oliver, high-order quantities were investigated and it enabled us to gain some useful knowledge on the behavior of the uncertainty for these high-order quantities. Throughout the paper, several tests were developed to evaluate the robustness of the model. Notably, some issues were raised regarding the calibration of the model, which was found to fail in several cases. Some discretization error estimates were also set in default when the influence of the mean in x in z on the computed statistics was investigated. Still, a promising feature of the model was highlighted : the implementation of a non-informative prior in the bayesian model, which might be very useful when quantities with a priori unknown characteristics are investigated provided successful results for the centerline mean velocity. Several recommendations for future work were advised, notably the implementation of a more physical criteria to complete the mathematical model.*
